in this video I'm going to give you four
ways to keep your audience engaged as a
public speaker people's attention spans
these days is getting shorter and
shorter in fact you may be wondering at
this very moment do I actually want to
watch more of this video or should I
watch some of these other videos that
YouTube is recommending to me right now
that look pretty interesting it is
incredibly challenging as a speaker even
as somebody putting out YouTube content
to maintain that focus and attention but
in this video I'm going to give you four
strategies techniques if you will that
will allow you to keep your audience's
attention as a public speaker and
therefore deliver a powerful message hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson my
YouTube channel is all about becoming a
better more impactful communicator and
public speaker whether it's Toastmasters
whether it's professional development my
videos cover a wide range and if that is
something that sound sounds interesting
to you please subscribe to my channel it
is people like you who subscribe and
watch my videos that allows me to be
able to put out content and videos just
like this and it is something I
absolutely love doing now when you're
delivering a speech in person in front
of a group of people you have a luxury
that usually most people won't just get
up and walk out of the room that's a
nice thing but it still doesn't mean
that they're listening it still doesn't
mean that they're engaged especially
with the fact that we all have devices
where we can be have our heads down and
you may be speaking to a lot of
foreheads as you're trying to deliver
your passionate speech it's tough to
keep people's attention and keep them
focused but the first tip that I have
starts with the very beginning of your
speech it is a powerful intro a powerful
sentence that captures the audience
attention and keeps them guessing or
thinking where the speech is going to go
I've talked about this before on my
channel but my favorite style of
speeches are ones that come full circle
that have a big statement or sentence
that is thought provoking and very
interesting and then get into the body
of the speech but as the speech comes
around it concludes by perhaps answering
the question that was posed at the
beginning or coming back to the theme or
the statement and especially if it
connects seamlessly it is incredibly
powerful when you listen to a speech or
watch a speech that has come full circle
it's masterful it's something that you
sit back and you think wow this was
artistically done in such an impactful
way therefore that intro speech if it's
profound enough it's something that can
keep the audience engaged throughout the
whole presentation because they'll be
wondering well why was this sentence
said how is this all going to tie
together and if you're able to craft
that the audience at the end is going to
be so engaged and they're going to
listen throughout the speech so that is
the first tip start with an intro that
captures the audience's attention right
off the hall the second tip I have for
keeping your audience engaged is
utilizing vocal variety when a speaker
is delivering a presentation and he or
she talks at the same decibel level
throughout the entire speech and never
gets any louder or any quieter and
speaks at the same Rhythm it is
something that is so painfully boring to
listen to but when you are able to get
louder and get excited
or alternatively
to bring your voice down
introduce more pauses
and disrupt the normal Cadence the
normal flow of conversation by either
increasing it Clapping Your Hands doing
some form of action with all of your
vocal effort into it or dialing that
back noticeably every time you do that
the audience will will clue in they'll
hear that something is different and
they'll if they were distracted on their
phones they'll look up and they'll see
what is happening and if you implement
those periodically throughout a speech
it is very powerful to continue to keep
the audience engaged throughout vocal
variety is something that many people
talk about but to master it is one of
the most powerful skills any public
speaker can have the third tip for
keeping your audience engaged throughout
a presentation is eye contact if we as
the speaker are looking up at the
ceiling or looking down at the floor as
we get of our presentation their lacks
and accountability because the audience
will feel like okay it's all right they
don't have to be looking right at you
because you're not looking right at them
but if your eye contact is strategic
throughout the speech and as you're
talking you are looking at the entire
room and you're purposefully holding eye
contact with certain individuals for a
specific period of time those
individuals will feel obligated to stay
connected to you as the speaker they
will be nervous to look down at their
phone or look away because they know you
as a speaker are eventually going to
make your way VIA eye contact throughout
the room and at some point your eyes are
going to land on them and they're almost
going to be caught if they're looking
down at their screen and I don't mean
that in a negative way I simply mean
that is a more inclusive thing to do
when you look at some somebody they feel
included they feel as though you're
speaking directly to them and therefore
they're going to give you the respect of
listening more intently eye contact is
incredibly important for maintaining
your audience's attention a sidebar to
this what if you're on a zoom call well
if you're looking at the computer screen
and you have all of those faces who
you're talking to you can be looking at
people's reaction but remember what the
virtual eye contact is that is looking
right at the camera lens as you speak
because right now if you're watching me
speak I am looking right at you but the
minute I look down to see your reaction
now there's no longer the virtual eye
contact so something to keep in mind for
the virtual presentations you may be
doing the fourth way you can keep your
audience engaged as a public speaker is
adding in something unique like an
audience poll or a specific question if
you ask your audience to participate in
some way usually they will oblige
they'll be willing to do whatever it is
that you say for example you could say
okay I'm going to ask you a question do
you think this or that anybody who
thinks option a raise your hand that is
interaction if the audience is moving
they're raising their hand they are more
likely to stay engaged to the things
that you're going to say after that
participation other speakers will ask
the audience to do something they may
ask Their audience to stand up for a
brief moment of time as they however
that ties into their speech or they'll
say close your eyes
I want you to imagine you are on a
tropical island
now I want you and they continue going
that way and by closing your eyes again
it's re-engaging your audience asking
them to do something and most people
will go along with that
and once you recapture that attention
people will continue to pay attention so
these four tips I just mentioned if
you're using them in tandem you're using
the vocal variety while making eye
contact while also incorporating
audience participation and you have that
strong intro or opening
that is all the ingredients the audience
is going to pay attention throughout
your speech you are going to keep them
engaged even though interesting things
are happening happening on their phone
they want to check their email they want
to check their Instagram they want to do
all of those things but they're going to
put that to the side because you are
commanding their attention through your
powerful speech and that is where they
want to focus on I'll give you one more
bonus tip for keeping your audience's
attention and this is really similar to
the vocal variety piece and that is to
use humor if you can make the audience
laugh
it is incredibly powerful you disrupt
that little flow of just you talking
because now the audience is making noise
as they laugh by timing in periodically
and naturally hopefully those little
pieces of humor that you inject along
with all those other ingredients that is
what separates a great public speaker
from somebody who is an okay or a good
public speaker I hope these tips on
keeping your audience engaged have been
valuable to you I hope you are still
watching hopefully I made this engaging
enough that you watch right through this
video and if you did I want to ask you a
favor please subscribe to my channel it
helps me out so much when people like
you subscribe what I commit is to put up
more great video content like this to
help make you a better Communicator a
more impactful public speaker
but people like you by subscribing to my
channel allow me to focus more time and
energy on these videos on this content
and that is something I am passionate
about doing so thank you in advance
Please Subscribe comment below let me
know if these tips were helpful hit that
like button all of those actions help me
out dramatically thank you so much for
watching this video if you are looking
for a little bit of coaching help with
your next speech I am providing
one-on-one evaluations my contact email
is in the video description reach out to
me and let's discuss what that could
look like